tune-threads/README.md, before:

# Tuning the number of threads (workers) used by the qvm

This code is designed to determine the optimal number of threads to use when running the qvm,
with optimality defined by smallest wall-clock execution time.

## Examples

* Find the optimal number of threads to use for 4, 15, and 18 qubit programs (on a four-core machine)
```lisp
(ql:quickload :qvm-tune-threads)
(use-package :qvm-tune-threads)
CL-USER> (optimal-num-threads 4)
1
CL-USER> (optimal-num-threads 15)
3
CL-USER> (optimal-num-threads 18)
4
```

* Print the optimal number of threads, together with relative times for each number of threads
for number of qubits ranging from 2 through 14.
```lisp
(defparameter *tms* (scan-num-qubits (alexandria:iota 14 :start 2) :print-info t))
```

```lisp
1: #(1.00 1.66 1.20 2.83)
1: #(1.00 1.63 1.57 15.61)
1: #(1.00 1.68 1.72 3.72)
1: #(1.00 1.46 1.65 14.93)
1: #(1.00 1.23 1.33 11.23)
2: #(1.01 1.00 1.10 10.00)
2: #(1.09 1.00 1.11 6.28)
2: #(1.15 1.00 1.02 7.41)
3: #(1.40 1.03 1.00 5.84)
3: #(1.80 1.14 1.00 3.88)
3: #(2.11 1.35 1.00 2.78)
3: #(2.55 1.36 1.00 1.92)
3: #(2.72 1.43 1.00 1.33)
3: #(2.74 1.49 1.00 1.03)
```

* Examine timing data used when optimizing the number of threads for 8-qubit programs.

```
CL-USER> (defparameter *tm* (scan-num-threads 8))
*TM*
CL-USER> (optimal-num-threads-from-scan *tm*) ; compute the optimal number of threads
2
CL-USER> (alexandria:hash-table-values *tm*)
(#S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::TIMING
    :PRE-TIMING #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::PRE-TIMING
                   :INIT-NUM-TRIALS 1
                   :NUM-TRIALS 16
                   :TRIAL-TIME 0.177)
    :NUM-TRIALS 91
    :NUM-THREADS 4
    :TARGET-TIME 1.0
    :RUN-TIME 0.991)
 #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::TIMING
    :PRE-TIMING #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::PRE-TIMING
                   :INIT-NUM-TRIALS 1
                   :NUM-TRIALS 128
                   :TRIAL-TIME 0.136)
    :NUM-TRIALS 942
    :NUM-THREADS 3
    :TARGET-TIME 1.0
    :RUN-TIME 1.018)
 #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::TIMING
    :PRE-TIMING #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::PRE-TIMING
                   :INIT-NUM-TRIALS 1
                   :NUM-TRIALS 256
                   :TRIAL-TIME 0.166)
    :NUM-TRIALS 1543
    :NUM-THREADS 2
    :TARGET-TIME 1.0
    :RUN-TIME 0.999)
 #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::TIMING
    :PRE-TIMING #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::PRE-TIMING
                   :INIT-NUM-TRIALS 1
                   :NUM-TRIALS 512
                   :TRIAL-TIME 0.179)
    :NUM-TRIALS 2861
    :NUM-THREADS 1
    :TARGET-TIME 1.0
    :RUN-TIME 0.992))
```

Commit message:

* Style improvements * Use values rather than list to return values * Move work from do clause, to loop features in loop * Omit #` before (lambda... * Add documentation

tune-threads/README.md, after:

# Tuning the number of threads (workers) used by the qvm

This code is designed to determine the optimal number of threads to use when running the qvm,
with optimality defined by smallest wall-clock execution time.

## How it works

Data for tuning the number of threads is generated by benchmarking a quil program.

* The tuning framework takes a one-parameter lisp function `f` that returns a compiled quil program.
The single parameter to `f` is the number of qubits. The function `f` is meant to be
supplied by the "user". A default program is used if `f` is not supplied. The default program
performs hadamard gates on each qubit and then measures each qubit.

* The quil program is timed for varying numbers of threads (and perhaps qubits). Each execution of the
quil program is called a "trial". The number of threads that optimizes the number of "trials" per second
is considered the optimum number of threads.

* Timing occurs in two stages: 1) a coarse measurement from a few trials (pre-timing). 2) The results
from pre-timing are used to choose the number of trials to be used for more precise timing. This is
done in two stages because the time required to execute a quil program depends strongly on the
program and especially on the number of qubits.

* Pre-timing: The clock time required to run the quil program a variable number `n` times is recorded. 
The number of trials `n` is first set to `1`, and is doubled until the clock time is greater
than `0.1`s.

* Using the final result from pre-timing, the number of trials required to consume `target-time` seconds
(1s by default) is computed. The quil program is then run this number of times and the execution time is
recorded.

* The number of threads, number of trials, and times from the above steps are recorded in data structures.
Functions are provided to compare the data and to extract the optimal number of threads.

## Examples

* Find the optimal number of threads to use for 4, 15, and 18 qubit programs (on a four-core machine)
```lisp
(ql:quickload :qvm-tune-threads)
(use-package :qvm-tune-threads)
CL-USER> (optimal-num-threads 4)
1
CL-USER> (optimal-num-threads 15)
3
CL-USER> (optimal-num-threads 18)
4
```

* Print the optimal number of threads, together with relative times for each number of threads
for number of qubits ranging from 2 through 14.
```lisp
(defparameter *tms* (scan-num-qubits (alexandria:iota 14 :start 2) :print-info t))
```

```lisp
1: #(1.00 1.66 1.20 2.83)
1: #(1.00 1.63 1.57 15.61)
1: #(1.00 1.68 1.72 3.72)
1: #(1.00 1.46 1.65 14.93)
1: #(1.00 1.23 1.33 11.23)
2: #(1.01 1.00 1.10 10.00)
2: #(1.09 1.00 1.11 6.28)
2: #(1.15 1.00 1.02 7.41)
3: #(1.40 1.03 1.00 5.84)
3: #(1.80 1.14 1.00 3.88)
3: #(2.11 1.35 1.00 2.78)
3: #(2.55 1.36 1.00 1.92)
3: #(2.72 1.43 1.00 1.33)
3: #(2.74 1.49 1.00 1.03)
```

* Examine timing data used when optimizing the number of threads for 8-qubit programs.

```
CL-USER> (defparameter *tm* (scan-num-threads 8))
*TM*
CL-USER> (optimal-num-threads-from-scan *tm*) ; compute the optimal number of threads
2
CL-USER> (alexandria:hash-table-values *tm*)
(#S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::TIMING
    :PRE-TIMING #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::PRE-TIMING
                   :INIT-NUM-TRIALS 1
                   :NUM-TRIALS 16
                   :TRIAL-TIME 0.177)
    :NUM-TRIALS 91
    :NUM-THREADS 4
    :TARGET-TIME 1.0
    :RUN-TIME 0.991)
 #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::TIMING
    :PRE-TIMING #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::PRE-TIMING
                   :INIT-NUM-TRIALS 1
                   :NUM-TRIALS 128
                   :TRIAL-TIME 0.136)
    :NUM-TRIALS 942
    :NUM-THREADS 3
    :TARGET-TIME 1.0
    :RUN-TIME 1.018)
 #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::TIMING
    :PRE-TIMING #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::PRE-TIMING
                   :INIT-NUM-TRIALS 1
                   :NUM-TRIALS 256
                   :TRIAL-TIME 0.166)
    :NUM-TRIALS 1543
    :NUM-THREADS 2
    :TARGET-TIME 1.0
    :RUN-TIME 0.999)
 #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::TIMING
    :PRE-TIMING #S(QVM-TUNE-THREADS::PRE-TIMING
                   :INIT-NUM-TRIALS 1
                   :NUM-TRIALS 512
                   :TRIAL-TIME 0.179)
    :NUM-TRIALS 2861
    :NUM-THREADS 1
    :TARGET-TIME 1.0
    :RUN-TIME 0.992))
```
